4. God’s Covenant with Abraham
==============================

Many years after the flood, there were again many people in the world,
and they all spoke the same language. But instead of filling the earth
as God had commanded, they gathered together and built a city.

The people were very proud, and they did not care about what God said.
They even began building a tall tower to reach heaven. God saw that if
they all kept working together, they could do many more evil things.

So God changed their language into many different languages and spread
the people out all over the world. The city they had begun to build was
called Babel, which means “confused.”

Hundreds of years later, God spoke to a man named Abram. God told him,
“Leave your country and family and go to the land I will show you. I
will bless you and make you a great nation. I will make your name great.
I will bless those who bless you and curse those who curse you. All
families on earth will be blessed because of you.”

So Abram obeyed God. He took his wife, Sarai, together with all his
servants and everything he owned and went to the land God showed him,
the land of Canaan.

When Abram arrived in Canaan God said, “Look all around you. I will give
to you and your descendants all the land that you can see as an
inheritance.” Then Abram settled in the land.

One day, Abram met Melchizedek, the priest of God Most High. Melchizedek
blessed Abram and said, “May God Most High who owns heaven and earth
bless Abram.” Then Abram gave Melchizedek a tenth of all he owned.

Many years went by, but Abram and Sarai still had no son. God spoke to
Abram and promised again that he would have a son and as many
descendants as the stars in the sky. Abram believed God’s promise. God
declared that Abram was righteous because he believed in God's promise.

Then God made a covenant with Abram. A covenant is an agreement between
two parties. God said, “I will give you a son from your own body. I give
the land of Canaan to your descendants.” But Abram still had no son.

*A Bible story from: Genesis 11-15*
