8. God Saves Joseph and His Family
==================================

Many years later, when Jacob was an old man, he sent his favorite son,
Joseph, to check on his brothers who were taking care of the herds.

Joseph’s brothers hated him because their father loved him most and
because Joseph had dreamed that he would be their ruler. When Joseph
found his brothers, they kidnapped him and sold him to some slave
traders.

Before they returned home, the brothers tore Joseph’s clothes and dipped
them in blood. Then they showed the clothes to their father and lied to
him saying a wild animal had killed Joseph. Jacob was very sad.

The slave traders took Joseph to Egypt. Egypt was a large, powerful
country located beside the Nile River. The slave traders sold Joseph as
a slave to a wealthy government official. Joseph served his master well,
and God blessed Joseph.

His master’s wife tried to sleep with Joseph, but Joseph refused to sin
against God in this way. She became angry and had Joseph arrested and
sent to prison. Even in prison, Joseph remained faithful to God, and God
blessed him.

Years later, Joseph was still in prison, even though he had done nothing
wrong. The king of Egypt, who was called the Pharaoh, had two dreams
that disturbed him greatly. None of his advisors could tell him the
meaning of the dreams.

God had given Joseph the ability to interpret dreams, so Pharaoh had
Joseph brought to him from the prison. Joseph interpreted the dreams for
him and said, “God is going to send seven years of good harvests
followed by seven years of famine.”

Pharaoh was so impressed with Joseph that he made him the second most
powerful man in all of Egypt!

During the seven years of good harvests, Joseph told the people to store
up large amounts of food. Then when the seven years of famine came,
Joseph sold the food to the people so they would have enough to eat.

The famine was severe not only in Egypt, but also in Canaan where Jacob
and his family lived.

So Jacob sent his sons to Egypt to buy food. When the brothers stood
before Joseph to buy food, they did not recognize him. But Joseph
recognized them.

After testing them to see if they had changed, Joseph said to them, “I
am your brother, Joseph! Do not be afraid. You tried to do evil when you
sold me as a slave, but God used the evil for good! Come and live in
Egypt so I can provide for you and your families.”

When the brothers returned home and told Jacob that Joseph was still
alive, he was very happy.

Even though Jacob was an old man, he moved to Egypt with all of his
family, and they all lived there. Before Jacob died, he blessed each of
his sons.

The covenant promises that God gave to Abraham were passed on to Isaac,
then to Jacob, and then to Jacob’s twelve sons and their families. The
descendants of the twelve sons became the twelve tribes of Israel.

*A Bible story from: Genesis 37-50*
