9. God Calls Moses
==================

After Joseph died, all of his relatives stayed in Egypt. They and their
descendants continued to live there for many years and had many
children. They were called the Israelites.

Many years later, a new Pharaoh came to power in Egypt. The Egyptians
forgot about Joseph and all he had done to help them. They became afraid
of the Israelites because there were so many of them. So the Egyptians
made the Israelites their slaves.

The Egyptians forced the Israelites to build many buildings and even
whole cities. The hard work made their lives miserable, but God blessed
them, and they had even more children.

Pharaoh saw that the Israelites were having many babies, so he ordered
all Israelite baby boys to be killed by throwing them into the Nile
River.

A certain Israelite woman gave birth to a baby boy. She and her husband
hid the baby for as long as they could.

When they could no longer hide him, they put him in a floating basket in
the Nile River. His older sister watched to see what would happen to
him.

A daughter of Pharaoh saw the basket and looked inside. When she saw the
baby, she took him as her own son. She hired an Israelite woman to nurse
him, without realizing the woman was the baby's own mother. When the
child was old enough, his mother returned him to Pharaoh’s daughter. She
named him Moses.

One day, when Moses had grown up, he saw an Egyptian beating an
Israelite slave. Moses tried to save his fellow Israelite.

When he thought nobody was looking, he killed the Egyptian and buried
his body. But someone saw what had happened.

When Pharaoh found out about it, he tried to kill Moses because of what
he had done. Moses ran away from Egypt to the wilderness where he would
be safe.

Moses became a shepherd in the wilderness far away from Egypt. He
married and had two sons.

One day while Moses was taking care of his sheep, he saw a bush that was
on fire. But the bush did not burn up. Moses went to take a closer look.
As he approached the burning bush, the voice of God said, “Moses, take
off your shoes. You are standing on holy ground.”

God said, “I have seen the suffering of My people. I will send you to
Pharaoh so that you can bring the Israelites out of their slavery in
Egypt. I will give them the land of Canaan, the land I promised to
Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.”

Moses said, “What if the people ask me who sent me, what should I say?”
God said, “I AM WHO I AM. Tell them, ‘I AM has sent me to you.’ This is
My name forever.”

Moses did not want to go because he thought he could not speak well, so
God sent Moses’ brother, Aaron, to help him. God warned Moses and Aaron
that Pharaoh would be stubborn.

*A Bible story from: Exodus 1-4*
