12. The Exodus
==============

The Israelites were very happy to leave Egypt. They were no longer
slaves, and they were going to the Promised Land! The Egyptians gave the
Israelites gifts of gold and silver and other valuable things. Some
Egyptians believed in God and joined the Israelites as they left Egypt.

God led them by going ahead of them as a tall cloud pillar during the
day, which became a tall fire pillar at night. God was always with them
and guided them as they traveled. All they had to do was follow.

After a short time, Pharaoh and his people changed their minds and
wanted the Israelites to be their slaves again. God did this to get
glory for Himself by showing that He is more powerful than Pharaoh and
his gods.

So Pharaoh and his army chased after the Israelites to make them their
slaves again. When the Israelites saw the Egyptian army coming, they
realized they were trapped between Pharaoh’s army and the Red Sea. They
were very afraid and cried out, “Why did we leave Egypt? We are going to
die!”

Moses told the people, “Do not be afraid! God will fight for you today
and save you.” Then God told Moses, “Tell the people to move toward the
Red Sea.”

The cloud pillar then moved between the Israelites and the Egyptians so
the Egyptians could not see the Israelites.

Moses lifted his hand over the sea, and God caused the wind to blow. The
wind made the water in the sea separate to the left and the right,
making a path through the sea.

The Israelites marched through the sea on dry ground with a wall of
water on either side of them.

Then the cloud lifted and the Egyptians saw the Israelites escaping.
They decided to chase after them.

So they followed the Israelites onto the path through the sea, but God
threw the Egyptians into a panic and caused their chariots to get stuck.
They shouted, “Run away! God is fighting for the Israelites!”

After the Israelites all made it safely to the other side, God told
Moses to stretch out his hand again. When he obeyed, the water fell on
the Egyptian army and returned to its normal place. The whole Egyptian
army drowned.

When the Israelites saw that the Egyptians were dead, they believed in
God and trusted that Moses was a prophet of God.

They also rejoiced with much excitement because God had saved them from
death and slavery! Now they were free to serve God. The Israelites sang
many songs to celebrate their new freedom and to praise God for saving
them.

God commanded the Israelites to remember His victory over the Egyptians
and their deliverance from slavery by celebrating the Passover Feast
every year. They celebrated by killing a perfect lamb, having a big
feast, and telling the story of how God had saved them from the
Egyptians.

*A Bible story from: Exodus 12:33-15:21*
