13. God’s Covenant with Israel
==============================

After God led the Israelites through the Red Sea, He led them through
the wilderness to a mountain called Sinai. This was the same mountain
where Moses saw the burning bush. The people set up their tents at the
base of the mountain.

God said to Moses and the people of Israel, “If you will obey My voice
and keep My covenant, you will be My prized possession, a kingdom of
priests, and a holy nation.”

Three days later, after the people had prepared themselves, God came
down on top of Mount Sinai with thunder, lightning, smoke, and a loud
trumpet blast. Only Moses was allowed to go up the mountain.

Then God gave them the covenant and said, “I am the LORD your God, who
saved you from slavery in Egypt. Do not worship other gods.”

“Do not make idols or worship them, for I, the LORD your God, am a
jealous God. Do not use God’s name in a disrespectful way. Remember to
keep the Sabbath day holy. Do all your work in six days, for the seventh
day is a day of rest to remember the LORD.”

“Honor your father and your mother. Do not murder. Do not commit
adultery. Do not steal. Do not lie. Do not wish you had your neighbor’s
wife, his house, or anything that belongs to him.”

Then God wrote these Ten Commandments on two stone tablets and gave them
to Moses. God also gave many other laws and rules to follow. If the
people obeyed these laws, God promised that He would bless and protect
them. If they disobeyed them, God would punish them.

God gave the Israelites a detailed description of a tent He wanted them
to make. It was called the Tent of Meeting. The Tent of Meeting had two
rooms, separated by a large curtain. No one could enter the room behind
the curtain except the high priest, because God lived there.

Anyone who disobeyed God’s law could bring an animal to the Tent of
Meeting to sacrifice to God. A priest would kill the animal and burn it
on the altar. The blood of the sacrifice covered the person’s sin and
made them clean in God’s sight. God chose Aaron, Moses’ brother, and his
descendants to be His priests.

The people all agreed to obey the laws that God had given them, to
worship only God, and to be His special people. But a short time after
they promised to obey God, they sinned terribly.

For many days, Moses was on top of Mount Sinai talking with God. The
people became tired of waiting for him to return. So they brought gold
to Aaron and asked him to make an idol for them!

Aaron made a golden idol in the shape of a calf. The people began to
wildly worship and sacrifice to the idol! God was very angry with their
sin and planned to destroy them. But Moses prayed for them, and God
listened to his prayer and did not destroy them.

When Moses came down the mountain and saw the idol, he was so angry that
he smashed the stones on which God had written the Ten Commandments.

Then he beat the idol into powder, threw the powder into some water and
made the people drink the water. God sent a plague on the people and
many of them died.

Then Moses climbed the mountain again and prayed that God would forgive
the people. God listened to Moses and forgave them. Moses wrote the Ten
Commandments on new stone tablets to replace the ones he had broken.
Then God led the Israelites away from Mount Sinai toward the Promised
Land.

*A Bible story from: Exodus 19-34*
