17. God’s Covenant with David
=============================

Saul was the first king of Israel. He was tall and handsome, just like
the people wanted. Saul did well at first, but he became a wicked man
who did not obey God, so God chose a different man to be king in his
place.

This man’s name was David. He was a shepherd from the town of Bethlehem.
While watching the sheep, David had killed both a lion and a bear which
had attacked the sheep. David was a humble and righteous man who trusted
and obeyed God.

David was also a great soldier and leader. When David was still a young
man, he fought against a giant named Goliath. Goliath was a trained
soldier, very strong, and almost three meters tall! But God helped David
kill Goliath and save Israel.

Saul became jealous of David and tried many times to kill him. One day
Saul was looking for David so he could kill him. Saul went into the same
cave where David was hiding. Instead of killing Saul, David cut off a
piece of his clothes to prove to Saul that he would not kill him to
become king.

Eventually, Saul died in battle, and David became king of Israel. He was
a good king, and the people loved him. God blessed David and made him
successful. David fought many battles and God gave him victory. David
conquered Jerusalem and made it his capital. During David’s reign,
Israel became powerful and wealthy.

David wanted to build a temple where everybody could worship God and
offer Him sacrifices. For about 400 years, the people had been
worshiping God and offering sacrifices to Him at the Tent of Meeting
that Moses had built.

God sent the prophet Nathan to David with this message, “Because you are
a man of war, you will not build Me this house; your son will. But, I
will bless you greatly. Someone from your family will always sit on the
throne of Israel. And the Messiah will be one of your descendants!” The
Messiah is God’s Chosen One who would save the world from sin.

When David heard these words, he immediately thanked and praised God
because He had promised David great honor and many blessings. The
Israelites would have to wait a long time before the Messiah came,
almost 1,000 years.

David ruled with justice and faithfulness for many years, and God
blessed him. However, toward the end of his life he sinned terribly
before God.

One day, when all of his soldiers were out fighting, David got up from
an afternoon nap and saw a beautiful woman bathing. Her name was
Bathsheba.

Instead of looking away, David sent someone to bring her to him. He
slept with her and sent her back home. A short time later Bathsheba sent
a message to David saying that she was pregnant.

Her husband, Uriah, was one of David’s best soldiers. David called Uriah
back from the battle and told him to go be with his wife. But Uriah
refused to go home while the rest of the soldiers were in battle. So
David sent Uriah back to the battle and had him placed where the enemy
was strongest so that he would be killed.

After Uriah was killed, David married Bathsheba. Later, she gave birth
to David's son. God was not pleased with what David had done, so He sent
the prophet Nathan to show David his sin. David repented of his sin and
God forgave him. For the rest of his life, David trusted God, even in
difficult times.

But as punishment for his sin, David’s baby boy died. There was also
fighting in David’s family for the rest of his life, and David’s power
was greatly weakened. Though David had been unfaithful to God, God was
still faithful to His promises. Bathsheba gave birth to another son
named Solomon.

*A Bible story from: 1 Samuel 10; 15-19; 24; 31; 2 Samuel 5; 7; 11-12*
