30. Jesus Feeds Five Thousand People
====================================

Jesus sent his disciples to preach and teach. When they returned, they
told Jesus what they had taught and done. Then Jesus invited them to
come with him to a quiet place to rest for a while. So, they got into a
boat and left.

But there were many people who saw Jesus and the disciples leave. They
ran along the shore of the lake to get to the other side ahead of them.
When Jesus and the disciples arrived, they were greeted by great crowds
of people.

The crowd had over 5,000 men in it, not counting the women and children.
Jesus felt great kindness towards the people. To Jesus, these people
were like sheep without a shepherd. So he taught them and healed their
sick.

As it got later in the evening, the disciples told Jesus, “It is late
and there are no towns nearby. Send the people away so they can go get
something to eat.”

But Jesus said to them, “You give them something to eat!” The disciples
responded, “How can we do that? We only have five loaves of bread and
two fish.”

Jesus called the crowd to him and told them to sit down in groups on the
grass.

Then he took the five loaves of bread and the two fish, looked up to
heaven, and blessed the food.

Jesus then started breaking the bread and fish. He gave the pieces to
his disciples to give to the people. The disciples kept passing out the
food, and it never ran out! All the people ate and were satisfied.

The disciples even picked up twelve baskets full of leftover food that
had not been eaten. All the food came from the five loaves of bread and
two fish.

*A Bible story from: Matthew 14:13-21; Mark 6:31-44; Luke 9:10-17; John
6:5-15*
