33. The Story of the Farmer
===========================

One day, Jesus was down by the sea, teaching great crowds of people. The
crowd got so big that Jesus got into a boat and began speaking from
there.

Jesus told this story. “A farmer went out to plant some grain. As he was
spreading the seeds by hand, some seeds fell on the path, and the birds
came and ate it all.”

“Other seeds fell on a rocky place, where there was not much soil. The
seeds in the rocky soil sprouted quickly. But when the sun came up and
it got hot, the plants withered and died since their roots did not go
deep.”

“Still other seeds fell among thorny bushes. Those seeds were choked by
the thorns and did not produce any grain.”

“Other seeds fell into good soil. These seeds grew up and produced 30,
60, or even 100 times as much grain as had been planted. He who has
ears, let him hear!”

This story confused the disciples. Jesus explained, “The seed represents
the Word of God. The seeds on the path are like people who hear God’s
Word, do not understand it, and the devil takes the word from them.”

“The seeds on the rocky soil are like people who hear God’s Word and
accept it with joy. But in times of hardship or persecution, they fall
away because they have no maturity.”

“The seeds in the thorns are like people who hear God’s Word and believe
it. But as time passes, their love for God is choked out by the cares,
riches, and pleasures of life. The teaching they heard does not produce
fruit.”

“But the seeds that fall on good soil represent people who hear the Word
of God, believe it, and produce spiritual fruit.”

*A Bible story from: Matthew 13:1-8, 18-23; Mark 4:1-8, 13-20; Luke
8:4-15*
