35. The Story of the Compassionate Father
=========================================

One day, Jesus was teaching many tax collectors and sinners who were
with him.

The religious leaders were grumbling because Jesus was treating these
people as friends. So Jesus told this story.

“There was a man who had two sons. The younger son told his father,
‘Father, I want my inheritance now!’ So the father divided his property
between the two sons.”

“Soon the younger son gathered all that he had and went far away and
wasted his money in sinful living.”

“At that time a severe famine came on the land, and he had no money to
buy food. So he took the only job he could find, feeding pigs. He was so
miserable and hungry that he wanted to eat the pigs’ food.”

“Finally, the younger son said to himself, ‘What am I doing? All my
father’s servants have plenty to eat, and yet here I am starving. I will
go back to my father and ask to be one of his servants.’”

“While the younger son was still far away, his father saw him and felt
compassion for him. He ran to his son and hugged him and kissed him.”

“The son said, ‘Father, I have sinned against God and against you. I am
not worthy to be your son.’”

“But his father told one of his servants, ‘Go quickly! Bring the best
clothes and put them on my son! Put a ring on his finger and put sandals
on his feet. Then kill the best calf so we can have a feast, because my
son was dead, but now he is alive! He was lost, but now he is found!’”

“And they began to celebrate. Before long, the older son came home from
working in the field. He heard the music and dancing and wondered what
was happening.”

“When he found out that there was a party because his brother had come
home, he was very angry and would not go into the house. His father came
out and begged him to join the party, but he refused.”

“He said, ‘All these years I’ve worked so faithfully for you! I never
disobeyed you, and still you did not even give me one small goat so I
could celebrate with my friends. But when this son of yours who wasted
your money on sinful behavior came home, you killed the best calf for
him!’”

“The father answered, ‘My son, you are always with me, and everything I
have is yours. But it is right for us to celebrate, because your brother
was dead, but now is alive. He was lost, but now is found!’”

*A Bible story from: Luke 15:11-32*
