37. Jesus Raises Lazarus from the Dead
======================================

One day, Jesus received a message that Lazarus was very sick. Lazarus
and his two sisters, Mary and Martha, were good friends of Jesus. When
Jesus heard this news, he said, “This sickness will not end in death,
but it will bring glory to God.” Jesus loved his friends, so he waited
where he was for two days.

Then he said to his disciples, “Let’s go back to Judea.” “But Teacher,”
the disciples answered, “Just a short time ago the people there wanted
to kill you!” Jesus said, “Our friend Lazarus has fallen asleep, and I
must wake him.”

His disciples replied, “Lord, if Lazarus is sleeping, he will get better
on his own.” Then Jesus told them plainly, “Lazarus is dead. I am glad
we were not there when he died, for now you will see amazing things so
that you may believe.”

When Jesus got there, Lazarus had already been dead for four days.
Martha went out to meet Jesus and said, “Master, if only you had been
here, my brother would not have died. But I believe God will give you
whatever you ask from Him.”

Jesus replied, “I am the Resurrection and the Life. Whoever believes in
me will live, even though he dies. Everyone who believes in me will
never die. Do you believe this?” “Yes, Master!” Martha answered. “I
believe you are the Messiah, the Son of God.”

Then Mary arrived. She fell at the feet of Jesus and said, “Lord, if
only you had been here, my brother would not have died.” “Where have you
put Lazarus?” he asked them. They told him, “In the tomb. Come and see.”
Then Jesus wept.

The tomb was a cave with a stone rolled across its entrance. When Jesus
arrived at the tomb, he told them, “Roll the stone away.” But Martha
said, “He has been dead for four days. There will be a bad smell.”

Jesus responded, “Did I not tell you that you would see God’s glory if
you believe?” So they rolled the stone away.

Then Jesus looked up to heaven and said, “Father, thank You for hearing
me. I know You always listen to me, but I say this for the sake of all
these people standing here, so that they will believe You sent me.” Then
Jesus shouted, “Lazarus, come out!”

And Lazarus did! He was still wrapped up in grave clothes. Jesus told
them, “Help him get out of those grave clothes and release him!” Many of
the Jews believed in Jesus because of this miracle.

But the religious leaders of the Jews were jealous, so they gathered
together to plan how they could kill Jesus and Lazarus.

*A Bible story from: John 11:1-46*
