39. Jesus Is Put on Trial
=========================

It was the middle of the night. The soldiers led Jesus to the house of
the high priest to be questioned. Peter followed far behind. When Jesus
was taken into the house, Peter stayed outside and warmed himself by a
fire.

Inside the house, the Jewish leaders put Jesus on trial. They brought
many witnesses who lied about him. However, their statements did not
agree with each other, so they could not prove he was guilty. Jesus did
not say anything.

Finally, the high priest looked directly at Jesus and said, “Tell us,
are you the Messiah, the Son of the living God?”

Jesus said, “I am, and you will see me seated with God and coming in
power from heaven.” The high priest tore his clothes in anger and
shouted, “We do not need any more witnesses. You have heard him say that
he is the Son of God. What is your judgment?”

They all answered, “He deserves to die!” Then they blindfolded him, spit
on him, hit him, and mocked him.

Outside the house, a girl saw Peter and said, “You also were with
Jesus!” Peter denied it. Later, another girl said the same thing, and
Peter denied it again. Finally, the people said, “You were with Jesus
because you both are from Galilee.”

Peter swore, saying, “May God curse me if I know this man!” Immediately,
a rooster crowed, and Jesus turned and looked at Peter.

Peter went outside and cried bitterly. Meanwhile, when Judas, the
betrayer, saw that Jesus had been condemned, he became full of sorrow
and went away and killed himself.

Early the next morning, the Jewish leaders brought Jesus to the Roman
governor, Pilate, hoping to have Jesus killed. Pilate asked him, “Are
you the King of the Jews?”

Jesus answered, “You have said so, but my Kingdom is not an earthly
kingdom. If it was, my servants would fight for me. But I have come to
earth to tell the truth about God. Everyone who loves the truth listens
to me.” Pilate said, “What is truth?”

After speaking with Jesus, Pilate went out to the crowd and said, “I
find no guilt in this man.” But the Jewish leaders and the crowd
shouted, “Crucify him!” Pilate replied, “He is not guilty.” But they
shouted even louder. Then Pilate said a third time, “He is not guilty!”

But Pilate became afraid that a riot would start, so he handed Jesus
over to them to be crucified. The soldiers whipped Jesus, put a royal
robe and a crown made of thorns on him, and they mocked him, saying,
“Look, the King of the Jews!”

*A Bible story from: Matthew 26:57-27:26; Mark 14:53-15:15; Luke
22:54-23:25; John 18:12-19:16*
