42. Jesus Returns to Heaven
===========================

Later that day, two of Jesus’ followers were going to a nearby town. As
they walked, they talked about the death of Jesus and how the women said
he was alive again. They wondered if Jesus really was the Messiah.

Jesus came up and started walking with them, but they did not recognize
him. He asked what they were talking about, and they told him about all
the terrible things that had happened during the last few days. They
thought he was a stranger who had not heard about it.

Then Jesus explained to them what God’s Word says about the Messiah. He
reminded them that the prophets said the Messiah would suffer and be
killed, but would rise again on the third day. When they arrived at the
town where they were going, it was almost night.

The two men invited Jesus to stay with them, so he did. Before they ate,
Jesus picked up a loaf of bread, thanked God for it, then broke it.
Suddenly, their eyes were opened, and they recognized that he was Jesus.
At that moment, he disappeared.

The two men said to each other, “Our hearts were burning when he
explained God’s Word to us!” Immediately, they returned to Jerusalem and
told the disciples, “Jesus is alive! We have seen him!”

Suddenly, Jesus appeared! The disciples thought he was a ghost, but
Jesus said, “Peace to you! Why are you afraid and doubting? Look at my
hands and feet. Ghosts do not have bodies like I do.” To show he was not
a ghost, he asked for a piece of cooked fish and ate it.

“I told you that everything written about me in God’s Word must be
fulfilled,” Jesus said. Then he opened their minds so they could
understand God’s Word. He said, “It was written long ago that the
Messiah would suffer, die, and rise from the dead on the third day.”

“It was also written that repentance for forgiveness of sins would be
proclaimed to all people groups, starting in Jerusalem. You are
witnesses of these things.”

During the next forty days, Jesus appeared to his disciples and
followers many times. Once, he even appeared to more than 500 people at
the same time! He proved to his disciples in many ways that he was
alive, and he taught them about the Kingdom of God.

At the end of the forty days, Jesus said to his disciples, “All
authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. So go, make
disciples of all people groups by baptizing them in the name of the
Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit and by teaching them to obey
everything I have commanded you.”

“Remember, I will be with you always. Stay in Jerusalem until you
receive power from above.” Then Jesus was taken up to heaven, and a
cloud hid him from their sight. Jesus sat down at the right hand of God
to rule over all things.

*A Bible story from: Matthew 28:16-20; Mark 16:12-20; Luke 24:13-53;
John 20:19-23; Acts 1:1-11*
