43. The Church Begins
=====================

After Jesus returned to heaven, the disciples stayed in Jerusalem as
Jesus had commanded. The followers of Jesus gathered together and were
praying constantly.

Fifty days after Jesus rose from the dead, a Jewish feast called
Pentecost took place. Pentecost was a celebration of thanksgiving. Jews
from all over the world would come to Jerusalem to celebrate together.

While the believers were all together, suddenly, they heard a sound like
a strong wind that filled the house. Then something like flames of fire
appeared over the heads of all the believers. They were all filled with
the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other languages.

When the people in Jerusalem heard about this, a crowd gathered,
wondering what was happening. The people were astonished when they heard
the believers speaking in their own native languages, proclaiming the
wonderful works of God.

Some accused the disciples of being drunk, but Peter stood up and said,
“Listen to me! These people are not drunk! This is a fulfillment of the
prophecy made by the prophet Joel which says, ‘In the last days, I will
pour out my Spirit.’”

“Men of Israel, Jesus was a man who did many mighty signs and wonders by
the power of God, as you have seen and already know. You crucified him!”

“But God raised him to life again to fulfill the prophecy which says,
‘You will not let your Holy One rot in the grave.’ God raised this Jesus
from the dead. We are witnesses.”

“Jesus is now exalted to the right hand of God the Father. And the
Father has sent the promised Holy Spirit which you are seeing and
hearing.”

“Know for certain that God has made this Jesus, the one you crucified,
both Lord and Messiah!”

The people listening to Peter were deeply moved and asked, “Brothers,
what should we do?”

Peter said, “Repent and be baptized every one of you in the name of
Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, and you will receive the gift
of the Holy Spirit.”

About 3,000 people believed what Peter said. They were baptized and were
added to the people of God, which is the Church. The people who believed
in Jesus became known as Christians.

The believers devoted themselves to the disciples’ teaching, fellowship,
eating together, and prayer. They all met together and shared everything
they had. They praised God and even non-believers thought well of them.
Every day, more people became Christians.

*A Bible story from: Acts 2*
