45. Philip and the Ethiopian Official
=====================================

Stephen was a leader in the early Church. He had a good reputation and
was full of the Holy Spirit and of wisdom. Stephen did many miracles and
argued strongly that people should believe in Jesus.

One day, Stephen was arguing with some Jews about Jesus. They became
very angry and lied about Stephen, saying, “We heard him speak evil
things about Moses and God!” So they arrested Stephen and brought him
before the high priest and leaders of the Jews.

The high priest asked Stephen, “Are these things true?” Stephen replied,
“You stubborn and rebellious people always reject the Holy Spirit, just
as your ancestors always rejected God and killed His prophets. You have
even killed the Messiah whom God sent!”

When the people heard this, they covered their ears and yelled loudly.
They threw Stephen out of the city and stoned him to death.

As he was dying Stephen cried out, “Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.” Then
he fell to his knees and cried out again, “Lord, do not count this sin
against them.” Then he died.

A man named Saul approved of Stephen’s execution and guarded the
belongings of those who stoned Stephen. That day many people attacked
the Christians, and they were scattered through that region. But
everywhere they went they preached about Jesus.

Philip, one of Jesus' disciples, went to Samaria where he preached about
Jesus and many were saved. Then one day an angel from God told Philip to
go to the desert on the road to Gaza. As he walked along the road,
Philip saw an important official from Ethiopia sitting in his chariot.
The Holy Spirit told Philip to go up and talk to this man.

When he came near the chariot, he heard the man reading from the prophet
Isaiah, “He was led like a lamb to be killed, and did not say a word. He
was treated unfairly and without respect. His life was taken away from
him.”

Philip asked the Ethiopian, “Do you understand what you are reading?” He
said, “No. Is Isaiah talking about himself or someone else?”

Philip showed him that Isaiah was talking about Jesus. Philip also used
many other Scriptures to tell him the Good News of Jesus.

As they passed by some water, the Ethiopian said, “Look! There is some
water! Why can’t I be baptized?” And he ordered the chariot to stop.

So they went down into the water, and Philip baptized him. After Philip
baptized the Ethiopian, the Holy Spirit carried Philip away to another
place where he continued telling people about Jesus.

The Ethiopian went on his way, happy to know Jesus.

*A Bible story from: Acts 8:26-40*
