50. Jesus Returns
=================

For almost 2,000 years, the Good News of Jesus the Messiah has been
spreading, and the Church has been growing. Jesus said he would return
at the end of the world, but he still has not come back.

As we wait for Jesus’ return, Christians are to live holy and godly
lives. When Jesus was on earth he also said, “This Good News of the
Kingdom will be preached in the whole world for a testimony to all the
people groups, and then the end will come.”

Many people groups still have not heard about Jesus. Before he returned
to heaven, Jesus gave Christians the job of bringing the Good News to
those who have never heard. He said, “Go and make disciples of all
people groups! The fields are ripe for harvest!”

Jesus also said, “A servant is not greater than his master. You will be
tortured and killed because of me. In this world you will have trouble,
but be encouraged. I have defeated Satan! Remain faithful to the end,
and you will be saved.”

Jesus told his disciples a story which helped explain what the end would
be like. “The Kingdom of God is like a man who planted good seed in his
field. But while he was sleeping, his enemy came and planted weeds along
with the wheat, and then he went away.”

“When the plants sprouted, the workers asked their master, ‘Sir, you
planted good seed in that field. Why are there weeds in it?’ The master
answered, ‘An enemy has planted them.’”

“They responded, ‘Should we pull out the weeds?’ The master said, ‘If
you do that, you will pull out some of the wheat as well. Wait until the
harvest and then gather the weeds into piles to be burned, but bring the
wheat into my barn.’”

The disciples did not understand and said to Jesus, “Please explain this
story to us.” Jesus said, “The man who planted the good seed is the
Messiah. The field is the world. The good seed represents the people of
God’s Kingdom.”

“The weeds represent the people who belong to the evil one. The enemy
who planted them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the world, and
the harvesters are the angels.”

“At the end of the world, all the people who belong to the devil will be
gathered together and thrown into a fiery furnace, where there is
weeping and grinding of teeth. Then the righteous ones will shine like
the sun in the Kingdom of their Father.”

When Jesus returned to heaven, he said that he would return to earth the
same way that he left—with a physical body in the clouds. Jesus also
promised that when he returns, all Christians who have died will rise
from the dead and meet him in the air.

The Christians who are still alive will then be caught up together with
them in the air and all Christians will be with Jesus forever. Jesus
will be with his people in perfect unity forever.

Christians will be given the crown of life. They will never experience
the second death, which is hell. Instead, they will live forever with
God in perfect peace.

But those who do not believe in Jesus will be judged by God and thrown
into hell forever. In hell, people constantly weep and grind their teeth
in anguish. They are burned by fire that never goes out and eaten by
worms that never die.

Jesus will also completely destroy Satan and his kingdom and will throw
him into the lake of fire where he will burn forever. Death also will be
thrown into the lake of fire in hell.

Jesus will create a New Heaven and a New Earth. The universe will once
again be perfect, as it was before Adam and Eve sinned.

And Jesus will reign forever and ever. He will wipe away every tear and
there will be no more death, suffering, sadness, crying, evil, or pain.
He will rule his Kingdom with peace and justice, and he will be with his
people forever.

*A Bible story from: Matthew 24:14; 28:18; John 15:20, 16:33; Revelation
2:10; Matthew 13:24-30, 36-42; 1 Thessalonians 4:13-5:11; James 1:12;
Matthew 22:13; Revelation 20:10, 21:1-22:21*
