2. Sin Enters the World
=======================

![obs-02-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-01.jpg "obs-02-01.jpg")

Adam and his wife were very happy living in the beautiful garden God had
made for them. Neither of them wore clothes, but this did not cause them
to feel any shame, because there was no sin in the world. They often
walked in the garden and talked with God.

![obs-02-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-02.jpg "obs-02-02.jpg")

But there was a crafty snake in the garden. He asked the woman, “Did God
really tell you not to eat the fruit from any of the trees in the
garden?”

![obs-02-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-03.jpg "obs-02-03.jpg")

The woman answered, “God told us we could eat the fruit of any tree
except from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. God told us, ‘If
you eat that fruit or even touch it, you will die.’”

![obs-02-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-04.jpg "obs-02-04.jpg")

The snake responded, “That is not true! You will not die. God knows that
as soon as you eat it, you will be like God and will understand good and
evil like he does.”

![obs-02-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-05.jpg "obs-02-05.jpg")

The woman saw that the fruit was beautiful and looked delicious. She
also wanted to be wise, so she picked some of the fruit and ate it. Then
she gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it, too.

![obs-02-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-06.jpg "obs-02-06.jpg")

Suddenly, their eyes were opened, and they realized they were naked.
They tried to cover their bodies by sewing leaves together to make
clothes.

![obs-02-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-07.jpg "obs-02-07.jpg")

Then the man and his wife heard the sound of God walking through the
garden. They both hid from God. Then God called to the man, “Where are
you?” Adam replied, “I heard you walking in the garden, and I was
afraid, because I was naked. So I hid.”

![obs-02-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-08.jpg "obs-02-08.jpg")

Then God asked, “Who told you that you were naked? Did you eat the fruit
I told you not to eat?” The man answered, “You gave me this woman, and
she gave me the fruit.” Then God asked the woman, “What have you done?”
The woman replied, “The snake tricked me.”

![obs-02-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-09.jpg "obs-02-09.jpg")

God said to the snake, “You are cursed! You will slide on your belly and
eat dirt. You and the woman will hate each other, and your children and
her children will hate each other, too. The woman’s descendant will
crush your head, and you will wound his heel.”

![obs-02-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-10.jpg "obs-02-10.jpg")

God then said to the woman, “I will make childbirth very painful for
you. You will desire your husband, and he will rule over you.”

![obs-02-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-11.jpg "obs-02-11.jpg")

God said to the man, “You listened to your wife and disobeyed me. Now
the ground is cursed, and you will need to work hard to grow food. Then
you will die, and your body will return to dirt.” The man named his wife
Eve, which means “life-giver,” because she would become the mother of
all people. And God clothed Adam and Eve with animal skins.

![obs-02-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-02-12.jpg "obs-02-12.jpg")

Then God said, “Now that the human beings have become like us by knowing
good and evil, they must not be allowed to eat the fruit of the tree of
life and live forever.” So God sent Adam and Eve away from the beautiful
garden. God placed large, powerful angels at the entrance to the garden
to keep anyone from eating the fruit of the tree of life.

*A Bible story from: Genesis 3*
