3. The Flood
============

![obs-03-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-01.jpg "obs-03-01.jpg")

Many years later, many people were living in the world. They had become
very wicked and violent. It became so bad that God decided to destroy
the whole world with a huge flood.

![obs-03-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-02.jpg "obs-03-02.jpg")

But Noah found grace in God’s eyes. He was the only righteous man among
all the wicked people. God told Noah about the flood He was planning to
send. He told Noah to build a huge boat called an ark.

![obs-03-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-03.jpg "obs-03-03.jpg")

God told Noah to make the boat about 140 meters long, 23 meters wide,
and 13.5 meters high. It was to be made of wood and have three levels,
many rooms, a roof, and a window. The boat would keep Noah, his family,
and two of every kind of animal safe during the flood.

![obs-03-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-04.jpg "obs-03-04.jpg")

Noah obeyed God. He and his three sons built the boat just the way God
had told them. It took many years to build the boat, because it was so
big. Noah warned the people about the coming flood and told them to turn
to God, but they just laughed at him.

![obs-03-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-05.jpg "obs-03-05.jpg")

Noah and his family also gathered enough food for themselves and the
animals. When everything was ready, God told Noah it was time for him,
his wife, his three sons, and their wives to get into the boat—eight
people in all.

![obs-03-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-06.jpg "obs-03-06.jpg")

God sent a male and a female of every animal and bird to Noah so they
could go into the boat and be kept safe during the flood. God sent seven
males and seven females of every type of animal which could be used for
sacrifices. When they were all in the boat, God Himself closed the door.

![obs-03-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-07.jpg "obs-03-07.jpg")

Then it began to rain, and rain, and rain. It rained for forty days and
forty nights without stopping! Water also came gushing up out of the
earth. Everything in the whole world was covered with water, even the
highest mountains.

![obs-03-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-08.jpg "obs-03-08.jpg")

Everything that lived on the dry land died, except the people and
animals who were in the boat. The boat floated on the water and
everything inside the boat was kept safe.

![obs-03-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-09.jpg "obs-03-09.jpg")

After the rains stopped, the boat floated on the water for five months,
and then one day the boat rested on the top of a mountain. But the world
was still covered with water. After three more months, the tops of the
mountains were visible.

![obs-03-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-10.jpg "obs-03-10.jpg")

After forty more days, Noah sent out a bird called a raven to see if the
water had dried up. The raven flew back and forth looking for dry land,
but it could not find any.

![obs-03-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-11.jpg "obs-03-11.jpg")

Later Noah sent out a bird called a dove. But it also could not find any
dry land, so it came back to Noah. A week later he sent the dove out
again, and it came back with an olive branch in its beak! The water was
going down, and the plants were growing again!

![obs-03-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-12.jpg "obs-03-12.jpg")

Noah waited another week and sent out the dove a third time. This time,
it did not come back. The water had dried up!

![obs-03-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-13.jpg "obs-03-13.jpg")

Two months later God said to Noah, “You and your family and all the
animals may leave the boat now. Have many children and grandchildren and
fill the earth.” So they obeyed and left the boat.

![obs-03-14.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-14.jpg "obs-03-14.jpg")

After he got off the boat, Noah built an altar and sacrificed some of
each kind of animal which could be used for a sacrifice. God was happy
with the sacrifice and blessed Noah and his family.

![obs-03-15.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-15.jpg "obs-03-15.jpg")

God said, “I will never again curse the ground because of humans or
destroy the world with a flood, even though humans are sinful from their
youth.”

![obs-03-16.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-03-16.jpg "obs-03-16.jpg")

God then made the first rainbow as a sign of His promise. Every time the
rainbow appeared in the sky, God would remember what He promised and so
would His people.

*A Bible story from: Genesis 6-8*
