8. God Saves Joseph and His Family
==================================

![obs-08-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-02.jpg "obs-08-02.jpg")

Many years later, when Jacob was an old man, he sent his favorite son,
Joseph, to check on his older brothers who were far away, taking care of
the herds.

![obs-08-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-01.jpg "obs-08-01.jpg")

Joseph’s brothers hated him because their father loved him most and
because Joseph had dreamed that he would be their ruler. When Joseph
found his brothers, they kidnapped him and sold him to some slave
traders.

![obs-08-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-03.jpg "obs-08-03.jpg")

Before Joseph's brothers returned home, they tore Joseph’s robe and
dipped it in goat's blood. Then they showed the robe to their father so
that he would think a wild animal had killed Joseph. Jacob was very sad.

![obs-08-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-04.jpg "obs-08-04.jpg")

The slave traders took Joseph to Egypt. Egypt was a large, powerful
country located along the Nile River. The slave traders sold Joseph as a
slave to a wealthy government official. Joseph served his master well,
and God blessed Joseph.

![obs-08-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-05.jpg "obs-08-05.jpg")

His master’s wife tried to sleep with Joseph, but Joseph refused to sin
against God in this way. She became angry and falsely accused Joseph so
that he was arrested and sent to prison. Even in prison, Joseph remained
faithful to God, and God blessed him.

![obs-08-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-06.jpg "obs-08-06.jpg")

After two years, Joseph was still in prison, even though he was
innocent. One night, the king of Egypt, who was called the Pharaoh, had
two dreams that disturbed him greatly. None of his advisors could tell
him the meaning of the dreams.

![obs-08-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-07.jpg "obs-08-07.jpg")

God had given Joseph the ability to interpret dreams, so Pharaoh had
Joseph brought to him from the prison. Joseph interpreted the dreams for
him and said, “God is going to send seven years of good harvests
followed by seven years of famine.”

![obs-08-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-08.jpg "obs-08-08.jpg")

Pharaoh was so impressed with Joseph that he made him the second most
powerful man in all of Egypt!

![obs-08-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-09.jpg "obs-08-09.jpg")

Joseph told the people to store up large amounts of food during the
seven years of good harvests. Then Joseph sold the food to the people
when the seven years of famine came so they would have enough to eat.

![obs-08-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-10.jpg "obs-08-10.jpg")

The famine was severe not only in Egypt, but also in Canaan where Jacob
and his family lived.

![obs-08-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-11.jpg "obs-08-11.jpg")

So Jacob sent his sons to Egypt to buy food. The brothers did not
recognize Joseph when they stood before him to buy food. But Joseph
recognized them.

![obs-08-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-12.jpg "obs-08-12.jpg")

After testing his brothers to see if they had changed, Joseph said to
them, “I am your brother, Joseph! Do not be afraid. You tried to do evil
when you sold me as a slave, but God used the evil for good! Come and
live in Egypt so I can provide for you and your families.”

![obs-08-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-13.jpg "obs-08-13.jpg")

When Joseph's brothers returned home and told their father, Jacob, that
Joseph was still alive, he was very happy.

![obs-08-14.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-14.jpg "obs-08-14.jpg")

Even though Jacob was an old man, he moved to Egypt with all of his
family, and they all lived there. Before Jacob died, he blessed each of
his sons.

![obs-08-15.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-08-15.jpg "obs-08-15.jpg")

The covenant promises that God gave to Abraham were passed on to Isaac,
then to Jacob, and then to Jacob’s twelve sons and their families. The
descendants of the twelve sons became the twelve tribes of Israel.

*A Bible story from: Genesis 37-50*
