13. God’s Covenant with Israel
==============================

![obs-13-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-01.jpg "obs-13-01.jpg")

After God led the Israelites through the Red Sea, he led them through
the wilderness to a mountain called Sinai. This was the same mountain
where Moses had seen the burning bush. The people set up their tents at
the base of the mountain.

![obs-13-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-02.jpg "obs-13-02.jpg")

God said to Moses and the people of Israel, “If you will obey me and
keep my covenant, you will be my prized possession, a kingdom of
priests, and a holy nation.”

![obs-13-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-03.jpg "obs-13-03.jpg")

Three days later, after the people had prepared themselves spiritually,
God came down on top of Mount Sinai with thunder, lightning, smoke, and
a loud trumpet blast. Only Moses was allowed to go up the mountain.

![obs-13-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-04.jpg "obs-13-04.jpg")

Then God gave them the covenant and said, “I am Yahweh, your God, who
saved you from slavery in Egypt. Do not worship other gods.”

![obs-13-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-05.jpg "obs-13-05.jpg")

“Do not make idols or worship them, for I, Yahweh, am a jealous God. Do
not use my name in a disrespectful way. Remember to keep the Sabbath day
holy. Do all your work in six days, for the seventh day is a day of rest
to remember me.”

![obs-13-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-06.jpg "obs-13-06.jpg")

“Honor your father and your mother. Do not murder. Do not commit
adultery. Do not steal. Do not lie. Do not wish you had your neighbor’s
wife, his house, or anything that belongs to him.”

![obs-13-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-07.jpg "obs-13-07.jpg")

Then God wrote these Ten Commandments on two stone tablets and gave them
to Moses. God also gave many other laws and rules to follow. If the
people obeyed these laws, God promised that he would bless and protect
them. If they disobeyed them, God would punish them.

![obs-13-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-08.jpg "obs-13-08.jpg")

God gave the Israelites a detailed description of a tent he wanted them
to make. It was called the Tent of Meeting, and it had two rooms,
separated by a large curtain. No one could enter the room behind the
curtain except the high priest, because God lived there.

![obs-13-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-09.jpg "obs-13-09.jpg")

Anyone who disobeyed God’s law could bring an animal to the Tent of
Meeting as a sacrifice to God. A priest would kill the animal and burn
it on the altar. The blood of the sacrifice covered the person’s sin and
made that person clean in God’s sight. God chose Moses' brother, Aaron,
and his descendants to be his priests.

![obs-13-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-10.jpg "obs-13-10.jpg")

The people all agreed to obey the laws that God had given them, to
worship only God, and to be his special people. But a short time after
they promised to obey God, they sinned terribly.

![obs-13-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-11.jpg "obs-13-11.jpg")

For many days, Moses was on top of Mount Sinai talking with God. The
people became tired of waiting for him to return. So they brought gold
to Aaron and asked him to make an idol for them!

![obs-13-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-12.jpg "obs-13-12.jpg")

So Aaron made a golden idol in the shape of a calf. The people began to
wildly worship the idol and make sacrifices to it! God was very angry
with their sin and planned to destroy them. But Moses prayed for them,
and God listened to his prayer and did not destroy them.

![obs-13-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-13.jpg "obs-13-13.jpg")

When Moses came down the mountain and saw the idol, he was so angry that
he smashed the stones on which God had written the Ten Commandments.

![obs-13-14.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-14.jpg "obs-13-14.jpg")

Then Moses beat the idol into powder, threw the powder into some water
and made the people drink the water. God sent a plague on the people and
many of them died.

![obs-13-15.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-13-15.jpg "obs-13-15.jpg")

Moses climbed the mountain again and prayed that God would forgive the
people. God listened to Moses and forgave them. Moses wrote the Ten
Commandments on new stone tablets to replace the ones he had broken.
Then God led the Israelites away from Mount Sinai toward the Promised
Land.

*A Bible story from: Exodus 19-34*
