14. Wandering in the Wilderness
===============================

![obs-14-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-01.jpg "obs-14-01.jpg")

After the Israelites received God’s Covenant at Mount Sinai, God began
leading them toward the Promised Land, which was also called Canaan. The
cloud pillar showed them the way.

![obs-14-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-02.jpg "obs-14-02.jpg")

God had promised Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob that he would give the
Promised Land to their descendants, but now there were many people
groups living there. They were called Canaanites. The Canaanites did not
believe in God. They worshiped false gods and did many evil things.

![obs-14-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-03.jpg "obs-14-03.jpg")

God told the Israelites, “You must get rid of all the Canaanites in the
Promised Land. Do not make peace with them and do not marry them. You
must completely destroy all of their idols. If you do not obey me, you
will worship their idols instead of me.”

![obs-14-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-04.jpg "obs-14-04.jpg")

When the Israelites reached the edge of Canaan, Moses chose twelve men,
one from each tribe of Israel. He gave the men instructions to go and
spy on the land to see what it was like. They were also to spy on the
Canaanites to see if they were strong or weak.

![obs-14-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-05.jpg "obs-14-05.jpg")

The twelve men spied on Canaan for forty days and then they came back.
Ten of the spies gave a bad report, saying, “The land is very good, and
the crops are great! But the cities are very strong, and the people are
giants! If we attack them, we will surely die!”

![obs-14-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-06.jpg "obs-14-06.jpg")

Immediately Caleb and Joshua, the other two spies, said, “It is true
that the people of Canaan are tall and strong, but we can certainly
defeat them! God will fight for us!”

![obs-14-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-07.jpg "obs-14-07.jpg")

But the people were mad at Moses and Aaron and said, “Oh, why did you
bring us to this horrible place? We should have stayed in Egypt rather
than be killed in battle and our wives and children made slaves.” The
people wanted to kill them and choose a new leader to bring them back to
Egypt.

![obs-14-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-08.jpg "obs-14-08.jpg")

God was very angry, and his presence appeared at the Tent of Meeting.
God said, “Except for Joshua and Caleb, all of the people who are twenty
years old or older will wander in the wilderness until they die. They
will never enter the Promised Land.”

![obs-14-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-09.jpg "obs-14-09.jpg")

When the people heard this, they were sorry they had sinned. They took
their weapons and went to attack Canaan. Moses warned them not to go
because God was not with them, but they did not listen to him.

![obs-14-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-10.jpg "obs-14-10.jpg")

God did not go with them into this battle, so they were defeated and
many of them were killed. Then the Israelites turned back from Canaan
and wandered through the wilderness for forty years.

![obs-14-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-11.jpg "obs-14-11.jpg")

During that time of wandering, God provided for them. He gave them bread
from heaven, called “manna.” He also sent quail (which is a kind of
bird) into their camp so they could have meat to eat. During those forty
years, God kept their clothes and shoes from wearing out.

![obs-14-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-12.jpg "obs-14-12.jpg")

God even miraculously gave them water from a rock. But despite all this,
the people of Israel complained and grumbled against God and against
Moses. God was still faithful to his promises to Abraham, Isaac, and
Jacob.

![obs-14-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-13.jpg "obs-14-13.jpg")

One time, the people had no water. God told Moses, “Speak to the rock,
and water will come out of it.” But Moses dishonored God in front of all
the people by hitting the rock twice with a stick instead of speaking to
it. Water came out of the rock for everyone to drink, but God was angry
with Moses and said, “You will not enter the Promised Land.”

![obs-14-14.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-14.jpg "obs-14-14.jpg")

After the Israelites had wandered in the wilderness for forty years, all
the people who had rebelled against God were dead. Then God led the
people to the edge of the Promised Land again. Moses was now very old,
so he chose Joshua to help him lead the people. God promised Moses that
one day he would raise up another prophet like Moses.

![obs-14-15.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-14-15.jpg "obs-14-15.jpg")

God brought Moses to the top of a mountain so he could see the Promised
Land. Moses saw the Promised Land but never entered it. Then Moses died,
and the Israelites mourned for thirty days. Joshua became their new
leader. Joshua was a good leader because he trusted and obeyed God.

*A Bible story from: Exodus 16-17; Numbers 10-14; 20; 27; Deuteronomy
34*
