15. The Promised Land
=====================

![obs-15-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-01.jpg "obs-15-01.jpg")

At last it was time for the Israelites to enter Canaan, the Promised
Land. Joshua sent two spies to the Canaanite city of Jericho. It was
protected by strong walls. A prostitute named Rahab protected the spies
and helped them escape because she believed God. They promised to
protect Rahab and her family when Jericho was destroyed.

![obs-15-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-02.jpg "obs-15-02.jpg")

The Israelites had to cross the Jordan River to enter into the Promised
Land. God told Joshua, “Have the priests go first.” When the priests’
feet touched the Jordan River, the water stopped flowing so the
Israelites could cross over on dry ground.

![obs-15-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-03.jpg "obs-15-03.jpg")

After the people crossed the Jordan River, God told Joshua how to attack
the powerful city of Jericho. The people obeyed God. The soldiers and
priests marched around the city of Jericho once a day for six days.

![obs-15-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-04.jpg "obs-15-04.jpg")

On the seventh day, the Israelites marched around the city seven times.
On the last time around the city, the soldiers shouted while the priests
blew on their trumpets.

![obs-15-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-05.jpg "obs-15-05.jpg")

Then the walls around Jericho fell down! The Israelites destroyed
everything in the city as God had commanded. They only saved Rahab and
her family, who became part of the Israelites. When the rest of the
Canaanites heard about what had happened to Jericho they were terrified.

![obs-15-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-06.jpg "obs-15-06.jpg")

God had commanded the Israelites not to make peace with any of the
people groups in Canaan. But the Canaanite people group of Gibeon lied
to Joshua and said they were from far away. They asked Joshua to make
peace with them. Joshua and the Israelites did not ask God where the
Gibeonites were from. So Joshua made peace with them.

![obs-15-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-07.jpg "obs-15-07.jpg")

When the other people groups in Canaan heard that the Gibeonites had
made peace with the Israelites, they joined their armies and attacked
Gibeon. The Gibeonites sent a message to Joshua asking for help.

![obs-15-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-08.jpg "obs-15-08.jpg")

Joshua was angry that he had been tricked, but he gathered the Israelite
army, and they marched all night to reach the Gibeonites. In the early
morning they surprised their Canaanite enemies and attacked them.

![obs-15-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-09.jpg "obs-15-09.jpg")

God threw the Canaanites into confusion. God fought for Israel that day
by sending large hailstones that killed many of the Canaanites.

![obs-15-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-10.jpg "obs-15-10.jpg")

God also made the sun stand still in the sky so that Israel could finish
defeating the Canaanites. God won a great victory for Israel that day.

![obs-15-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-11.jpg "obs-15-11.jpg")

After this defeat, the Canaanites who were left gathered together to
attack Israel. Joshua and the Israelites attacked and destroyed them.

![obs-15-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-12.jpg "obs-15-12.jpg")

After this battle, God gave each tribe of Israel its own section of the
Promised Land. Then God gave Israel peace along all its borders.

![obs-15-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-15-13.jpg "obs-15-13.jpg")

When Joshua was an old man, he called all the people of Israel together.
Then Joshua renewed the covenant that God had made with the Israelites
at Sinai. The people promised to remain faithful to God and follow his
laws.

*A Bible story from: Joshua 1-24*
