18. The Divided Kingdom
=======================

![obs-18-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-01.jpg "obs-18-01.jpg")

After David died, his son Solomon began to rule. God spoke to Solomon
and asked him what he wanted most. When Solomon asked for wisdom, God
was pleased and made him the wisest man in the world. God also made him
very wealthy.

![obs-18-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-02.jpg "obs-18-02.jpg")

In Jerusalem, Solomon built the Temple for which his father David had
planned and gathered materials. Instead of the Tent of Meeting, people
now worshiped God and offered sacrifices to Him in the Temple. God came
and was present in the Temple, and He lived there with His people.

![obs-18-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-03.jpg "obs-18-03.jpg")

But Solomon loved women from other countries. He disobeyed God by
marrying many women, almost 1,000 of them! Many of these women came from
foreign countries and brought their gods with them and worshiped them.
When Solomon was old, he worshiped their gods.

![obs-18-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-04.jpg "obs-18-04.jpg")

God was angry with Solomon and, as a punishment for Solomon’s
unfaithfulness, said He would divide the kingdom of Israel in two after
Solomon’s death.

![obs-18-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-05.jpg "obs-18-05.jpg")

After Solomon died, his son, Rehoboam, became king. Rehoboam was a
foolish man. All the people of Israel came together to confirm him as
king. They also complained that Solomon had made them do a lot of hard
work and pay a lot of taxes.

![obs-18-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-06.jpg "obs-18-06.jpg")

Rehoboam answered foolishly and told them, “You thought my father
Solomon made you work hard, but I will make you work harder than he did,
and I will punish you worse than he did.”

![obs-18-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-07.jpg "obs-18-07.jpg")

Ten of the tribes of Israel rebelled against Rehoboam. Only two tribes
remained faithful to him. These two tribes were called the kingdom of
Judah.

![obs-18-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-08.jpg "obs-18-08.jpg")

The other ten tribes that rebelled against Rehoboam made a man named
Jeroboam their king. They were called the kingdom of Israel.

![obs-18-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-09.jpg "obs-18-09.jpg")

Jeroboam rebelled against God and caused the people to sin. He built two
idols for his people to worship instead of worshiping God at the Temple
in the kingdom of Judah.

![obs-18-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-10.jpg "obs-18-10.jpg")

The kingdoms of Judah and Israel became enemies and often fought against
each other.

![obs-18-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-11.jpg "obs-18-11.jpg")

In the kingdom of Israel, all the kings were evil. Many of these kings
were killed by other Israelites who wanted to become king in their
place.

![obs-18-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-12.jpg "obs-18-12.jpg")

All of the kings of Israel and most of the people worshiped idols which
often included adultery and sometimes even child sacrifice.

![obs-18-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-18-13.jpg "obs-18-13.jpg")

The kings of Judah were descendants of David. Some of these kings were
good men who ruled justly and worshiped God. But most of Judah’s kings
were evil, corrupt, and idol-worshipers. Some of the kings even
sacrificed their children to false gods. The people of Judah also
rebelled against God and worshiped other gods.

*A Bible story from: 1 Kings 1-6; 11-12*
