19. The Prophets
================

![obs-19-01.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-01.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=049a8f "obs-19-01.jpg")

Throughout the history of the Israelites, God sent them prophets. The
prophets heard messages from God and then told the people God’s
messages.

![obs-19-02.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-02.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=737647 "obs-19-02.jpg")

Elijah was a prophet when Ahab was king over Israel. Ahab was an evil
man who encouraged people to worship a false god named Baal. Elijah said
to Ahab, “There will be no rain or dew in Israel until I say so.”

![obs-19-03.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-03.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=a73adf "obs-19-03.jpg")

Then God told Elijah to hide in the wilderness near a stream. Every
morning and every evening, birds would bring him bread and meat. Ahab
and his army looked for Elijah, but they could not find him. The drought
was so severe that the stream eventually dried up.

![obs-19-04.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-04.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=c18c00 "obs-19-04.jpg")

So Elijah went to a neighboring country. A widow and her son had almost
run out of food because of the famine. But they took care of Elijah, and
God provided so that neither their flour jar nor their bottle of oil
ever ran out. They had food through the whole famine. Elijah stayed
there a long time.

![obs-19-05.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-05.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=ebd82f "obs-19-05.jpg")

After three years, God told Elijah to return to Israel and speak with
Ahab because He was going to send rain again. When Ahab saw Elijah he
said, “There you are, you troublemaker!” Elijah said, “You are the
troublemaker! You have abandoned the true God and worshiped Baal. Bring
all of Israel to Mount Carmel.”

![obs-19-06.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-06.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=fb40fc "obs-19-06.jpg")

All of Israel, including the 400 prophets of Baal, came to Mount Carmel.
Elijah said, “How long will you keep changing your mind? If the LORD is
God, serve Him! If Baal is God, serve him!”

![obs-19-07.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-07.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=8139c2 "obs-19-07.jpg")

Then he said to the prophets of Baal, “Kill a bull and prepare a
sacrifice, but do not light the fire. I will do the same. The God who
answers with fire is the real God.” So the priests of Baal prepared a
sacrifice but did not light the fire.

![obs-19-08.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-08.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=ff647c "obs-19-08.jpg")

Then they prayed to Baal, “Hear us, O Baal!” All day long they prayed
and shouted and even cut themselves with knives, but Baal did not
answer.

![obs-19-09.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-09.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=eb6fdb "obs-19-09.jpg")

At the end of the day, Elijah prepared a sacrifice to God. Then he had
twelve huge pots of water poured on top of the sacrifice until the meat,
the wood, and even the ground around the altar was completely wet.

![obs-19-10.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-10.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=32ef4d "obs-19-10.jpg")

Then Elijah prayed, “O LORD, God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, show us
today that You are the God of Israel and that I am Your servant. Answer
me so that these people will know that You are God.”

![obs-19-11.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-11.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=464209 "obs-19-11.jpg")

Immediately, fire fell from the sky and burned up the meat, the wood,
the rocks, and even the wet ground around the altar. When the people saw
this, they fell on the ground and said, “The LORD is God! The LORD is
God!”

![obs-19-12.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-12.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=16e76a "obs-19-12.jpg")

Then Elijah said, “Do not let any of the prophets of Baal escape!” So
the people captured the prophets of Baal. Then Elijah took them away and
killed them.

![obs-19-13.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-13.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=ed765a "obs-19-13.jpg")

Then Elijah said to King Ahab, “Return immediately to the city, for the
rain is coming.” Soon the sky grew black, and a large rain storm came.
God had ended the drought and proved that He is the only God.

![obs-19-14.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-14.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=ab4f47 "obs-19-14.jpg")

After Elijah, God chose Elisha to be His prophet. God did many miracles
through Elisha. One time, Naaman, an enemy commander, found out he had a
horrible skin disease called leprosy. He had heard of Elisha so he went
and asked Elisha to be healed. Elisha told him to dip himself seven
times in the Jordan River.

![obs-19-15.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-15.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=ab08ea "obs-19-15.jpg")

At first Naaman was angry and would not do it. But later he changed his
mind and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan River. When he came up
the last time, his skin was completely healed! God had healed him.

![obs-19-16.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-16.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=b0ac48 "obs-19-16.jpg")

There were many other prophets. They all told the people to stop
worshiping idols and to start showing justice and mercy. The prophets
warned the people that if they did not turn from their sins and start
living obedient lives, then God’s judgment would come, and He would
punish them.

![obs-19-17.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-17.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=9218e4 "obs-19-17.jpg")

Most of the time, the people did not listen. They often mistreated the
prophets and sometimes even killed them. Once, the prophet Jeremiah was
put into a dry well and left there to die. He sank down into the mud
that was in the bottom of the well, but then the king had mercy on him
and pulled him out before he died.

![obs-19-18.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-19-18.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=c4e63b "obs-19-18.jpg")

Even though the prophets were hated, they continued to speak for God.
They warned people that they would be destroyed if they did not repent.
They also reminded people of the promise that God’s Messiah would come.

*A Bible story from: 1 Kings 16-18; 2 Kings 5; Jeremiah 38*
