20. The Exile and Return
========================

![obs-20-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-01.jpg "obs-20-01.jpg")

The nations of Israel and Judah both sinned against God. They broke the
Covenant that God made with them at Mount Sinai. God sent His prophets
to warn them to repent and worship Him again, but they refused to
listen.

![obs-20-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-02.jpg "obs-20-02.jpg")

So God punished both nations by allowing them to be destroyed. Israel
was destroyed by the Assyrian Empire, a powerful, cruel nation. The
Assyrians killed many Israelites, took away everything of value, and
burned much of the country.

![obs-20-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-03.jpg "obs-20-03.jpg")

The Assyrians gathered all the leaders, the rich people, and the people
with skills and took them to Assyria. Only the very poor Israelites who
had not been killed remained in Israel.

![obs-20-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-04.jpg "obs-20-04.jpg")

Then the Assyrians brought foreigners to live in Israel. The foreigners
rebuilt the destroyed cities and married the Israelites who were left
there. Their descendants were called Samaritans.

![obs-20-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-05.jpg "obs-20-05.jpg")

The people in the kingdom of Judah saw how God had punished the kingdom
of Israel for not believing and obeying Him. But they still worshiped
idols and the gods of the Canaanites. God sent prophets to warn them,
but they refused to listen.

![obs-20-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-06.jpg "obs-20-06.jpg")

About 100 years after the Assyrians destroyed Israel, God sent
Nebuchadnezzar, king of the Babylonians, to attack Judah. Babylon was a
powerful empire. The king of Judah agreed to be Nebuchadnezzar’s servant
and pay him lots of money every year.

![obs-20-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-07.jpg "obs-20-07.jpg")

But soon the people of Judah rebelled against the Babylonians. So, the
Babylonians came back and attacked them. They captured the city of
Jerusalem, destroyed the Temple, and took away all the treasures.

![obs-20-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-08.jpg "obs-20-08.jpg")

To punish Judah’s king for rebelling, Nebuchadnezzar’s soldiers killed
the king’s sons in front of him and then made him blind. After that,
they took the king away to die in prison in Babylon.

![obs-20-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-09.jpg "obs-20-09.jpg")

Nebuchadnezzar and his army took all the people of Judah to Babylon,
leaving only the poorest people behind to plant the fields. This is
called the Exile.

![obs-20-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-10.jpg "obs-20-10.jpg")

Even though the Exile was punishment for their sin, God did not forget
His people or His promises. God watched over His people and spoke to
them through His prophets. He promised that, after seventy years, they
would return to the Promised Land again.

![obs-20-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-11.jpg "obs-20-11.jpg")

About seventy years later, Cyrus, the king of the Persians, defeated
Babylon. The Persians were a strong but merciful people. The Israelites
were now called Jews and most of them had lived their whole lives in
Babylon. Only a few very old Jews even remembered the land of Judah.

![obs-20-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-12.jpg "obs-20-12.jpg")

Shortly after Cyrus came to power, he did something that had never been
done before in history. He gave an order that any Jew who wanted to
return to Judah could go. He even gave them money to rebuild the Temple!
After seventy years in exile, a small group of Jews returned to
Jerusalem.

![obs-20-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-20-13.jpg "obs-20-13.jpg")

When they arrived, they rebuilt the Temple and the wall around the city
of Jerusalem. Although they were still ruled by other people, they lived
in the Promised Land again and worshiped at the Temple.

*A Bible story from: 2 Kings 17; 24-25; 2 Chronicles 36; Ezra 1-10;
Nehemiah 1-13*
