22. The Birth of John
=====================

![obs-22-01.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-22-01.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=2b2cc7 "obs-22-01.jpg")

More than 400 years after the last prophet spoke to the Jews, an angel
appeared to an old priest named Zechariah. He was a godly man, but his
wife, Elizabeth, could not have any children.

![obs-22-02.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-22-02.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=2f6459 "obs-22-02.jpg")

The angel said to Zechariah, “Your wife will have a son. You will name
him John. He will be the great prophet that comes before the Messiah!”
Zechariah responded, “My wife and I are too old to have children! How
will I know this will happen?”

![obs-22-03.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-22-03.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=28c3ad "obs-22-03.jpg")

The angel answered, “I was sent by God to bring you this good news.
Because you did not believe me, you will not be able to speak until the
child is born.” Immediately, Zechariah was unable to speak. Then the
angel left. Zechariah returned home, and his wife became pregnant.

![obs-22-04.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-22-04.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=7450c0 "obs-22-04.jpg")

When Elizabeth was six months pregnant, the same angel appeared to
Elizabeth’s relative, whose name was Mary. She was a virgin and was
engaged to a man named Joseph. The angel said, “You will become pregnant
and give birth to a son.”

![obs-22-05.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-22-05.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=cbfa8a "obs-22-05.jpg")

The angel continued, “You are to name him Jesus. He will be the
Messiah!” Mary replied, “How can this be, since I am a virgin?” The
angel explained, “The Holy Spirit will come over you, and you will
conceive. So your son will be called the Son of the Most High God.”

![obs-22-06.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-22-06.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=b955d6 "obs-22-06.jpg")

Not long after this, Mary went and visited Elizabeth. As soon as
Elizabeth heard Mary’s greeting, Elizabeth’s baby jumped inside her. The
women rejoiced together about what God had done for them. After visiting
for three months, Mary returned home.

![obs-22-07.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-22-07.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=fd322c "obs-22-07.jpg")

After Elizabeth gave birth to her baby boy, they named him John as the
angel commanded. Then God allowed Zechariah to speak again. He said,
“Praise God, because He has remembered His people! You, my son, will be
called the prophet of the Most High God! You will prepare the way for
the Messiah!”

*A Bible story from: Luke 1*
