24. John Baptizes Jesus
=======================

![obs-24-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-24-01.jpg "obs-24-01.jpg")

When John grew up, he became a prophet. He lived in the wilderness, ate
wild honey and locusts, and wore clothes made from camel hair.

![obs-24-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-24-02.jpg "obs-24-02.jpg")

Many people came to listen to John. He preached to them, saying,
“Repent, for the Kingdom of God is near!”

![obs-24-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-24-03.jpg "obs-24-03.jpg")

Some people repented and were baptized when they heard John’s message,
but there were many religious leaders who came to be baptized without
repenting and confessing their sins.

![obs-24-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-24-04.jpg "obs-24-04.jpg")

John said to the religious leaders, “You bunch of snakes! Repent and
change your behavior. Every tree that does not bear good fruit will be
cut down and thrown into the fire.” John fulfilled what the prophet
Isaiah said, “Behold, I send my messenger ahead of you, who will prepare
your way.”

![obs-24-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-24-05.jpg "obs-24-05.jpg")

Some Jews asked John if he was the Messiah. John replied, “I am not the
Messiah, but there is someone coming after me who is much greater than I
am. I am not even worthy to untie his sandals.”

![obs-24-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-24-06.jpg "obs-24-06.jpg")

The next day, Jesus came to be baptized by John. When John saw him, he
said, “Look! There is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the
world.”

![obs-24-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-24-07.jpg "obs-24-07.jpg")

John said to Jesus, “I am not worthy to baptize you. You should baptize
me instead.” But Jesus said, “You should baptize me, because it is the
right thing to do.” So John baptized him, but not not because Jesus had
sinned—he never sinned.

![obs-24-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-24-08.jpg "obs-24-08.jpg")

When Jesus came out of the water, the Spirit of God took the appearance
of a dove and landed on him. At the same time a voice from heaven said,
“You are my beloved Son, and with you I am well pleased.”

![obs-24-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-24-09.jpg "obs-24-09.jpg")

God had told John, “The Holy Spirit will land on someone you baptize. He
is the Son of God.” There is only one God. But God is three persons, the
Father, Jesus the Son, and the Holy Spirit.

*A Bible story from: Matthew 3; Mark 1:9-11; Luke 3:1-23*
