26. Jesus Starts His Ministry
=============================

![obs-26-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-01.jpg "obs-26-01.jpg")

After overcoming Satan’s temptations, Jesus returned in the power of the
Holy Spirit to the region of Galilee where he lived. Jesus went from
place to place teaching. Everyone spoke well of him.

![obs-26-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-02.jpg "obs-26-02.jpg")

Jesus went to the town of Nazareth where he had grown up. On the
Sabbath, he went to the place of worship. They gave him the scroll of
the prophet Isaiah. Jesus opened up the scroll and read from it.

![obs-26-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-03.jpg "obs-26-03.jpg")

“God has poured his Spirit on me to proclaim good news to the poor,
freedom to captives, recovery of sight for the blind, and release to
prisoners. This is the year of the Lord’s favor.”

![obs-26-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-04.jpg "obs-26-04.jpg")

Then Jesus sat down. Everybody watched him closely. They knew this
passage was talking about the Messiah. Jesus said, “Today these words
have been fulfilled in your hearing.” All the people were amazed. “Isn’t
this the son of Joseph?” they said.

![obs-26-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-05.jpg "obs-26-05.jpg")

Then Jesus said, “I tell you the truth, no prophet is accepted in his
own hometown. When the prophet Elijah was alive there were many widows
in Israel. But when it did not rain for three and a half years, God did
not send Elijah to help a widow from Israel but a widow from a different
nation.”

![obs-26-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-06.jpg "obs-26-06.jpg")

“And when the prophet Elisha was alive, there were many people in Israel
with skin diseases. But Elisha did not heal any of them. He only healed
Naaman, a commander of Israel’s enemies.” When the people heard this,
they were furious.

![obs-26-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-07.jpg "obs-26-07.jpg")

The people of Nazareth dragged Jesus out of the place of worship and
brought him to the edge of a cliff to throw him off. But Jesus walked
through the crowd and left the town of Nazareth.

![obs-26-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-08.jpg "obs-26-08.jpg")

Then Jesus went through that area, and great crowds came to him. They
brought all the sick people, including those who could not see, walk,
hear, or speak, and Jesus healed them.

![obs-26-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-09.jpg "obs-26-09.jpg")

Many people with demons were brought to Jesus. At Jesus' command, the
demons came out, often shouting, “You are the Son of God!” The crowds
were amazed and worshiped God.

![obs-26-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-26-10.jpg "obs-26-10.jpg")

Then Jesus chose twelve men who were called his disciples. The disciples
were Jesus’ students. They traveled with him and learned from him.

*A Bible story from:Matthew 4:12-25; Mark 1:14-15, 35-39; 3:13-21; Luke
4:14-30, 38-44*
