28. The Rich Young Ruler
========================

![obs-28-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-01.jpg "obs-28-01.jpg")

One day a rich young ruler came up to Jesus and asked him, “Good
teacher, what good thing must I do to have eternal life?” Jesus said to
him, “Why do you call me good? There is only One who is good, and that
is God. But if you want to have eternal life, obey God’s laws.”

![obs-28-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-02.jpg "obs-28-02.jpg")

“Which ones?” he asked. Jesus replied, “Do not murder. Do not commit
adultery. Do not steal. Do not lie. Honor your father and mother, and
love your neighbor as you love yourself.”

![obs-28-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-03.jpg "obs-28-03.jpg")

The young man, trying to prove that he was right, said, “I have obeyed
all these laws ever since I was a boy. What do I still need to do?”
Jesus looked at him and loved him.

![obs-28-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-04.jpg "obs-28-04.jpg")

Jesus answered, “If you want to be perfect, then go and sell everything
you own and give the money to the poor, and you will have treasure
waiting for you in heaven. Then come and follow me.”

![obs-28-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-05.jpg "obs-28-05.jpg")

When the young man heard this, he became very sad, because he was very
rich. He turned and went away from Jesus, unwilling to give up his
wealth.

![obs-28-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-06.jpg "obs-28-06.jpg")

Then Jesus said to his disciples, “How hard it is for rich people to
enter into the Kingdom of God! Yes, it is easier for a camel to go
through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter the Kingdom of
God.”

![obs-28-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-07.jpg "obs-28-07.jpg")

When the disciples heard this they were shocked and said, “Then who can
be saved?”

![obs-28-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-08.jpg "obs-28-08.jpg")

Jesus looked at them and said, “With people this is impossible, but with
God, all things are possible.”

![obs-28-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-09.jpg "obs-28-09.jpg")

Peter said to Jesus, “We have left everything and followed you. What
will be our reward?”

![obs-28-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-28-10.jpg "obs-28-10.jpg")

Jesus answered, “Everyone who has left houses, brothers, sisters,
father, mother, children, or property for my name’s sake, will inherit
100 times more in the next world and also eternal life. But many who are
first will be last, and those who are last will be first.”

*A Bible story from: Matthew 19:16-30; Mark 10:17-31; Luke 18:18-30*
