32. Jesus Heals a Demon-Possessed Man & a Sick Woman
====================================================

![obs-32-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-01.jpg "obs-32-01.jpg")

One day, Jesus and his disciples crossed the Sea of Galilee to the
country of the Gerasenes.

![obs-32-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-02.jpg "obs-32-02.jpg")

When they reached the other side, a demon-possessed man came running up
to Jesus.

![obs-32-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-03.jpg "obs-32-03.jpg")

This man was so strong that nobody could hold him down. People had even
used chains to lock him up, but he kept breaking them.

![obs-32-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-04.jpg "obs-32-04.jpg")

The man lived among the tombs in the area. Day and night this man would
scream. He wore no clothes and cut himself repeatedly with stones.

![obs-32-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-05.jpg "obs-32-05.jpg")

When the man came to Jesus, he fell on his knees in front of him. Jesus
said, “Come out of the man, demon!”

![obs-32-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-06.jpg "obs-32-06.jpg")

The man with the demon cried out in a loud voice and said, “What do you
want with me, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? Please do not torture
me!” Then Jesus asked the man, “What is your name?” He replied, “My name
is Legion, for we are many.” (A legion was a group of up to 6,000
soldiers.)

![obs-32-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-07.jpg "obs-32-07.jpg")

The demons begged Jesus, “Please do not send us out of this area!” There
was a herd of pigs feeding on a nearby hill. So, the demons begged
Jesus, “Please send us into the pigs instead!” Jesus said, “Go!”

![obs-32-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-08.jpg "obs-32-08.jpg")

The demons came out of the man and entered the pigs. The pigs ran down a
steep bank into the sea and drowned. There were about 2,000 pigs in the
herd.

![obs-32-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-09.jpg "obs-32-09.jpg")

When the people taking care of the pigs saw what happened, they ran and
told everyone what Jesus had done. All the people came from the town and
saw the man who used to have the demons. He was sitting down, wearing
clothes, and acting like a normal person.

![obs-32-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-10.jpg "obs-32-10.jpg")

The people were very afraid and asked Jesus to leave. So Jesus got into
the boat and prepared to leave. The man who had been healed begged to go
along with Jesus.

![obs-32-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-11.jpg "obs-32-11.jpg")

But Jesus said to him, “Go home and tell your friends and family how
much God has done for you and how he has had mercy on you.”

![obs-32-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-12.jpg "obs-32-12.jpg")

So the man went away and told everyone about what Jesus had done for
him. Everyone who heard his story was filled with wonder and amazement.

![obs-32-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-13.jpg "obs-32-13.jpg")

Jesus returned to the other side of the Sea of Galilee. A large crowd
gathered around him and pressed in on him. In the crowd was a woman who
had been bleeding for twelve years. She had spent all her money on
doctors trying to get better, but she only got worse.

![obs-32-14.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-14.jpg "obs-32-14.jpg")

She heard how Jesus had healed many sick people and thought to herself,
“If I only touch Jesus’ clothes, then I, too, will be healed!” She came
up behind Jesus and touched his clothes. As soon as she touched Jesus,
the bleeding stopped!

![obs-32-15.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-15.jpg "obs-32-15.jpg")

Immediately Jesus realized that power had gone out from him. So he
turned around and asked, “Who touched me?” The disciples replied,
“Jesus, there are many people crowding around you and bumping into you.
How can you ask, ‘Who touched me?’”

![obs-32-16.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-32-16.jpg "obs-32-16.jpg")

The woman fell on her knees before Jesus, shaking and very afraid. Then
she told the whole truth. Jesus said to her, “Your faith has healed you.
Go in peace.”

*A Bible story from: Matthew 8:28-34; Mark 5:1-20; Luke 8:26-39*
