38. Jesus Is Betrayed
=====================

![obs-38-01.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-01.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=a60fc1 "obs-38-01.jpg")

Jesus had been preaching for about three years. It was the time of the
Passover Feast when the Jews remembered how God had saved them from
slavery in Egypt many years earlier. Jesus knew what would happen to him
and told his disciples he was going to Jerusalem where he would be
killed.

![obs-38-02.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-02.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=840388 "obs-38-02.jpg")

The Jewish leaders in Jerusalem had rejected Jesus as the Messiah and
were plotting to kill him. Judas was one of Jesus’ disciples. He was in
charge of the disciples’ money, but he was dishonest and often stole
from it. Judas went to the Jewish leaders and offered to betray Jesus to
them.

![obs-38-03.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-03.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=7339f6 "obs-38-03.jpg")

The Jewish leaders, led by the high priest, paid Judas thirty pieces of
silver to betray Jesus. This happened just as the prophets had
predicted. Judas agreed, took the money, and went away, looking for a
chance to help them arrest Jesus.

![obs-38-04.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-04.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=34af76 "obs-38-04.jpg")

Jesus celebrated the Passover Feast with his disciples. During the meal
Jesus took bread and broke it, saying, “Take and eat this. It is my
body, which is broken for you. Do this to remember me.” In this way,
Jesus said that his body would be sacrificed for them.

![obs-38-05.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-05.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=e78634 "obs-38-05.jpg")

Then he took a cup and said, “Drink this. It is my blood of the New
Covenant shed for the forgiveness of sins. Do this to remember me as
often as you drink it.” In this way, Jesus said that his blood would be
poured out to forgive their sins.

![obs-38-06.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-06.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=9c44d4 "obs-38-06.jpg")

Then Jesus said to the disciples, “One of you will betray me.” The
disciples were surprised and did not know who would do such a thing.
Jesus said, “The person to whom I give this piece of bread is the
betrayer.” Then he gave the bread to Judas.

![obs-38-07.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-07.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=1ccc22 "obs-38-07.jpg")

After Judas took the bread, Satan entered into him. Judas left to help
the Jewish leaders arrest Jesus. It was night.

![obs-38-08.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-08.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=5840d5 "obs-38-08.jpg")

After the meal, Jesus and his disciples walked to the Mount of Olives.
Jesus said, “All of you will all abandon me tonight. It is written, ‘I
will strike the shepherd and all the sheep will be scattered.’”

![obs-38-09.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-09.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=88f7a4 "obs-38-09.jpg")

Peter replied, “Even if all the others leave you, I will not!” Then
Jesus said to Peter, “Satan wants to have all of you, but I have prayed
for you, Peter, that your faith will not fail. Even so, tonight, before
the rooster crows, three times you will deny that you even know me.”

![obs-38-10.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-10.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=913922 "obs-38-10.jpg")

Peter then said to Jesus, “Even if I must die, I will never disown you!”
All the other disciples said the same thing.

![obs-38-11.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-11.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=f2de0f "obs-38-11.jpg")

Then Jesus went with his disciples to a place called Gethsemane. Jesus
told his disciples to pray that they would not fall into temptation.
Then Jesus went to pray by himself.

![obs-38-12.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-12.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=b1fd20 "obs-38-12.jpg")

Jesus prayed three times, “My Father, if there is no other way for
people’s sins to be forgiven, Your will be done.” Jesus was very
troubled and his sweat was like drops of blood. God sent an angel to
strengthen him.

![obs-38-13.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-13.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=52a347 "obs-38-13.jpg")

After each time of prayer, Jesus came back to his disciples, but they
were asleep. After the third time, Jesus said, “Wake up! My betrayer is
here.”

![obs-38-14.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-14.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=5df8c8 "obs-38-14.jpg")

Judas came with the Jewish leaders, soldiers, and a large crowd carrying
swords and clubs. He came to Jesus and said, “Greetings, teacher,” and
kissed him. This was the sign for the Jewish leaders to know whom to
arrest. Then Jesus said, “Judas, do you betray me with a kiss?”

![obs-38-15.jpg](/_media/en/obs/obs-38-15.jpg?w=640&h=360&tok=00241d "obs-38-15.jpg")

As the soldiers arrested Jesus, Peter pulled out his sword and cut off
the ear of the high priest’s servant. Jesus said, “Put the sword away! I
could ask the Father for an army of angels to defend me. But I must obey
my Father.” Then Jesus healed the man’s ear, and all the disciples ran
away.

*A Bible story from: Matthew 26:14-56; Mark 14:10-50; Luke 22:1-53; John
18:1-11*
