46. Paul Becomes a Christian
============================

![obs-46-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-01.jpg "obs-46-01.jpg")

Saul continued to attack the Christians going from house to house,
arresting men and women, and putting them in prison. Saul received
permission from the high priest to go to the city of Damascus to arrest
Christians there and bring them back to Jerusalem.

![obs-46-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-02.jpg "obs-46-02.jpg")

As Saul was on his way to Damascus, Jesus appeared to him in a bright
light and said, “Saul! Saul! Why do you persecute me?” He said, “Who are
you, Master?” Jesus replied, “I am Jesus whom you are persecuting.”

![obs-46-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-03.jpg "obs-46-03.jpg")

When Saul got up, he could not see and had to be led into Damascus. Saul
ate and drank nothing for three days.

![obs-46-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-04.jpg "obs-46-04.jpg")

Then God appeared to a Christian named Ananias and said, “Go to the
house where Saul is staying. Lay your hands on him so that he can see
again.” But Ananias said, “Master, I have heard how he has persecuted
the Christians.” God said, “I have chosen him to declare my name to the
unsaved. I will show him how much he must suffer for my sake.”

![obs-46-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-05.jpg "obs-46-05.jpg")

So Ananias said to Saul, “Jesus who appeared to you on the road sent me
to you so that you can regain your sight and be filled with the Holy
Spirit.” Saul immediately regained his sight. Then Saul was baptized. He
ate some food and his strength returned.

![obs-46-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-06.jpg "obs-46-06.jpg")

Right away, Saul began preaching to the Jews, saying, “Jesus is the Son
of God!” The Jews were amazed that the man who had tried to destroy the
Christians was now a Christian. Saul argued with the Jews, proving that
Jesus was the Messiah. Saul became known as Paul.

![obs-46-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-07.jpg "obs-46-07.jpg")

After many days, the Jews made a plan to kill Paul. They placed people
at the city gates to kill him. But Paul heard about the plan, and his
friends helped him escape. One night they lowered him over the city wall
in a basket. Paul ran away and continued preaching about Jesus.

![obs-46-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-08.jpg "obs-46-08.jpg")

Paul went to Jerusalem to meet with the disciples, but at first the
Christians were afraid of Paul. Finally, a Christian named Barnabas took
Paul to the disciples and told them how Paul had preached boldly in
Damascus. Then they accepted Paul.

![obs-46-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-09.jpg "obs-46-09.jpg")

Later, Paul and Barnabas went to the city of Antioch where they taught
many people about Jesus and strengthened the church. One day, the
Christians at Antioch were fasting and praying and the Holy Spirit said,
“Set apart for me Paul and Barnabas to do the work I have called them to
do.”

![obs-46-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-46-10.jpg "obs-46-10.jpg")

So the church prayed for Paul and Barnabas, laid their hands on them and
sent them off to preach the Good News of Jesus. They preached about
Jesus in many places and many people believed in Jesus.

*A Bible story from: Acts 6:8-8:3; 9:1-25; 11:25-26*
