47. Paul and Silas in Philippi
==============================

![obs-47-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-01.jpg "obs-47-01.jpg")

Some years later, Paul and his friend Silas went to the town of
Philippi, proclaiming the Good News about Jesus. They met a woman named
Lydia who sold purple cloth. She loved and worshiped God.

![obs-47-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-02.jpg "obs-47-02.jpg")

God opened Lydia's heart to understand the message of Jesus, and she and
her family were baptized. She invited Paul and Silas to stay at her
house, so they did.

![obs-47-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-03.jpg "obs-47-03.jpg")

Paul and Silas often went to pray while they were in Philippi. Every day
as they walked to the place of prayer, a slave girl possessed by a demon
followed them. She was a fortune teller, and she made a lot of money for
her masters.

![obs-47-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-04.jpg "obs-47-04.jpg")

The slave girl kept yelling, “These men are servants of the Most High
God. They are telling you the way to be saved!” She did this so often
that Paul became annoyed.

![obs-47-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-05.jpg "obs-47-05.jpg")

One day, Paul turned to her and said to the demon, “In the name of
Jesus, come out of her.” Right away the demon left her.

![obs-47-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-06.jpg "obs-47-06.jpg")

The men who owned the slave girl became very angry when they realized
the slave girl could no longer make money for them.

![obs-47-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-07.jpg "obs-47-07.jpg")

So the owners of the slave girl had Paul and Silas arrested, beaten, and
thrown into jail.

![obs-47-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-08.jpg "obs-47-08.jpg")

Paul and Silas were put in the most secure part of the prison with their
feet locked up. In the middle of the night, they were singing songs of
praise to God.

![obs-47-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-09.jpg "obs-47-09.jpg")

Suddenly, the earth shook and the prison doors flew open. All the
prisoners’ chains fell off.

![obs-47-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-10.jpg "obs-47-10.jpg")

When the jailer saw that the doors were open, he planned to kill
himself, thinking that all the prisoners had escaped. (He knew he would
be killed for letting the prisoners escape.) Paul saw him and yelled,
“Stop! Do not hurt yourself. We are all here.”

![obs-47-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-11.jpg "obs-47-11.jpg")

The jailer was terrified! He took Paul and Silas home, gave them some
food, and washed their wounds. Then he said, “What must I do to be
saved?”

![obs-47-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-12.jpg "obs-47-12.jpg")

Paul answered, “Believe in Jesus, the Master, and you and your family
will be saved.” Then Paul baptized the jailer and his whole family, and
they celebrated together.

![obs-47-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-13.jpg "obs-47-13.jpg")

The next day the leaders of the city freed Paul and Silas and asked them
to leave Philippi. Paul and Silas visited Lydia and some other friends
and then left the city. The Good News of Jesus kept spreading, and the
Church kept growing.

![obs-47-14.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-47-14.jpg "obs-47-14.jpg")

Paul and other Christian leaders traveled to many cities, preaching and
teaching about Jesus. They also wrote many letters to the churches to
encourage and teach them about God’s New Covenant.

*A Bible story from: Acts 16:11-40*
