49. God’s New Covenant
======================

![obs-49-01.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-01.jpg "obs-49-01.jpg")

Jesus’ mother, Mary, was a virgin when he was born, because Jesus is
God’s Son. Jesus is both God and man at the same time.

![obs-49-02.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-02.jpg "obs-49-02.jpg")

Jesus did many miracles proving he is God. He walked on water, calmed
storms, healed many sick people, drove out demons, raised the dead to
life, and fed 5,000 people with five loaves of bread and two fish.

![obs-49-03.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-03.jpg "obs-49-03.jpg")

Jesus was also a great teacher. He taught that you need to love your
neighbor the same way you love yourself.

![obs-49-04.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-04.jpg "obs-49-04.jpg")

He also taught that you need to love God more than anything else,
including your wealth.

![obs-49-05.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-05.jpg "obs-49-05.jpg")

Jesus said that salvation is worth more than anything else in the world.

![obs-49-06.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-06.jpg "obs-49-06.jpg")

He taught that not all people will receive him and be saved. Those who
are not saved will be gathered at the end of the world and will burn
forever in the fires of hell.

![obs-49-07.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-07.jpg "obs-49-07.jpg")

Jesus taught that God loves sinners very much. He is ready to forgive
them and make them his children.

![obs-49-08.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-08.jpg "obs-49-08.jpg")

Jesus also taught that everyone in the world has sinned and is separated
from God. Because of sin, everyone has become an enemy of God. God hates
sin.

![obs-49-09.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-09.jpg "obs-49-09.jpg")

But God loved the world so much that he gave his only son, Jesus, so
that whoever believes in him will not go to hell but will live with him
forever.

![obs-49-10.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-10.jpg "obs-49-10.jpg")

Because of your sin, you are guilty. You deserve death and God’s anger,
but God poured out his anger on Jesus instead of you. When Jesus died on
the cross, he received your punishment.

![obs-49-11.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-11.jpg "obs-49-11.jpg")

Jesus chose to die as a perfect, sinless sacrifice to take away your
sins and the sins of the whole world. Because of Jesus, any sin can be
forgiven, no matter what it is.

![obs-49-12.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-12.jpg "obs-49-12.jpg")

No one can be saved by doing good things. Nothing you do can fix your
relationship with God. Your sins can only be washed away if you believe
that Jesus is the Son of God, that he died on the cross in your place,
and that God raised him to life again.

![obs-49-13.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-13.jpg "obs-49-13.jpg")

Anyone who believes in Jesus and receives him as their Master will be
saved, but whoever does not believe will be rejected. It does not matter
if you are rich or poor, man or woman, old or young, or where you are
from. God loves you and wants you to believe in Jesus so he can have a
relationship with you.

![obs-49-14.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-14.jpg "obs-49-14.jpg")

Do you believe that Jesus is the Messiah, the only Son of God? Do you
believe that you are a sinner and deserve God’s punishment? Do you
believe that Jesus died on the cross to take away your sins? Jesus
invites you to come to him, believe in him, and be baptized.

![obs-49-15.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-15.jpg "obs-49-15.jpg")

If you believe this, you are a Christian! God has taken you out of
Satan’s kingdom of darkness and put you into God’s Kingdom of light. All
the old things are gone, because God makes all things new.

![obs-49-16.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-16.jpg "obs-49-16.jpg")

If you are a Christian, your sins are forgiven because of what Jesus
did. Now, when God looks at you, he does not see you as an enemy, but he
sees you as a close friend.

![obs-49-17.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-17.jpg "obs-49-17.jpg")

As a friend of God and a servant of Jesus the Master, you will want to
obey Jesus’ teachings. Even though you are a Christian, you will still
struggle with sin. But God says if you confess your sins, he is faithful
and will forgive you and will give you strength to fight against sin.

![obs-49-18.jpg](/var/www/vhosts/door43.org/httpdocs/data/gitrepo/media/en/obs/obs-49-18.jpg "obs-49-18.jpg")

God tells you to pray, study his Word, worship him with other
Christians, and tell others what he has done for you. All of these
things help you to grow in your relationship with him.

*A Bible story from: Romans 3:21-26, 5:1-11; John 3:16; Mark 16:16;
Colossians 1:13-14; 2 Thessalonians 5:17-21; 1 John 1:5-10*
